Communication Management.
That's communicating project information to your stakeholders primarily,
but may also include customers, users, team members.
Communication is a very critical and important element of
your project management activities.
And there may be varying types of reports for different
stakeholders and varying types of methods of reports and of
reporting for each different stakeholder,
so you will need to design and plan for how you will do this as a project
manager and then include that in your project plan.
So why do you think you should do reporting?
Think about that for a minute, but let me give you some ideas.
You need consistent and regular reporting to inform everyone what's going on.
You've heard the saying before no news is good news.
In project management no news is bad news.
If your customers or your stakeholders have not heard from you,
they assume bad things.
Next, it shows that your team knows what they're doing.
When they see regular and good status reports or performance reports,
this is great PR.
It'll give the impression, hopefully true,
that you're making great progress, or, if not,
you're honestly reporting what's happening so it can be improved and corrected.
It also allows others to review progress and provide inputs.
Someone may read a status report and go oh, what is milestone five?
Can we change that slightly?
Can we move it in one week?
It makes everyone more comfortable with what's going on.
Of course document who's responsible and accountable for everything,
tasks, issues, risks.
People need to see this.
And lastly, and maybe even most importantly,
helps manage everyone's expectations and answers these questions which are very,
very important: Are we on budget, do we think we will meet the schedule,
and are we meeting the customer's expectations?
So we do reporting to ensure that we meet the customer's expectations and
answer the questions at least of budget and schedule.
Those always seem to be by far the most important.
So here's an approach on how to build your communication road map.
First, determine what information you need to provide for each stakeholder.
These are your performance requirements,
and they are driven by the project's critical success factors.
In general,
you will provide the same information to make your life a little easier,
but you might have some differences to emphasis what the
stakeholder is really looking for.
Next,
determine the form and content of that information
such as will it be status reports, maybe dashboard portals,
stakeholder presentations say in PowerPoint,
maybe you want to show budgets versus actuals,
variance reports, milestones, so figure out what that content is.
Next, determine the source of the data for that information.
Where is this data going to come from that you're going to report?
Might it come from a time tracking system which is
tracking the hours and dollars, maybe financial systems,
maybe even vendor reports because you have
agreements for contracts with vendors.
You may need information from them in order to incorporate it with your reports,
and you may have project management tools helping you as well.
Next determine how you're going to monitor and measure that information.
What are the tools and processes that we'll use to
monitor and measure that information.
For example,
maybe the time tracking system tracks hours versus estimated hours so you
can easy see how you are tracking the budgeted hours.
Maybe you summarize this information to be used on your communications.
But each of these areas you want to find out where
the information is coming from, what's the source,
what's the form of that information,
and based on that source how do you measure and monitor
the information from that source.
Next, determine who you will need to provide it to,
where that information is going to go.
Come up with your distribution list,
typically an email list of all the people that will need to be kept informed.
You might categorize your list, stakeholders, vendors, your team members.
You will do this categorization because you may need to send
different information to each of these categories.
Again,
in a simple case maybe identical information to all
categories to all stakeholders,
but typically each stakeholder likes to see data slightly
differently that meets their needs.
Meet with them, find out what their needs are, conform to their needs.
Determine how often you will provide this information.
Weekly is quite typical.
You don't want to send too much information,
say daily, or people will just not read it.
So maybe status reports are weekly, maybe stakeholder reviews are quarterly,
maybe if it's a critical item you might send that out
immediately as a project alert message, for example.
And of course you can send information out any time you
think it is relevant and important.
So this road map is basically your plan on how you're going to
approach the reporting and communication.
You write all of this down about your plan,
and you put it into the overall plan itself.
This example you see in front of you would be part of the overall project plan.
It will be the communication or reporting portion of your plan.
It outlines what you'll do as it relates to
communicating your project information.
For example, Weekly Status.
This report is distributed weekly via email to the entire team,
customers, and stakeholders.
It provides a high-level description of the activities
over the last week and the upcoming week.
It also includes any critical issues.
So again, this reporting plan has three elements,
weekly status, stakeholder review, and the project WBS,
and it has a description of what will happen with each of those three,
and those would be included in your overall project plan.
And when your project plan is approved by your stakeholders,
they will understand how you'll be communicating with them.
Next example, stakeholder review.
The review may be held monthly and is targeted just to the stakeholder audience.
It is usually in PowerPoint format, easy to read and understand,
and given as an in-person presentation that is not via email.
And the last of the three in the example is the project WBS,
work break down structure.
This is a detailed project work break down structure showing tasks,
actual hours, estimated hours, dates, milestones,
etc.
in an Excel format and is available on request.
So again,
here are the three different types of reports or communication
elements as part of your overall project,
and these are how you're going to implement those.
They go into your plan, they get approved as part of your plan,
and as you're building the actual software or the actual
website as part of your plan you're also implementing the communication part of your plan as well.